developing_collections.rst: add collection creator path (#775)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_collections_path.rst

.. _developing_collections_path:

*******************************
Ansible collection creator path
*******************************

The guide's purpose and overview
================================

> 

Reviewer: In general, you don't want to have a heading directly under another heading (in this case the title) with no sentences in between. I suggest just removing 'guide purpose and overview' heading.

.. note::

>   If you are totally unfamiliar with the collection technology, first take a look at the :ref:`Using Ansible collections guide<collections>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you are unfamiliar with Ansible collections, first take a look at the :ref:`Using Ansible collections guide<collections>`.
```

Ansible collections are a distribution format for Ansible content that can include playbooks, roles, modules, and plugins.
A typical collection addresses a set of related use cases. For example, the ``community.dns`` collection includes modules and plugins to work with DNS.

> You can install collections made by others or share yours with the community through a distribution server such as Ansible Galaxy. Certified collections can be published to the Red Hat Automation Hub, a part of the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install collections made by others or share yours with the community through a distribution server such as `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/>`_. Certified collections can be published to the Red Hat Automation Hub, a part of the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.
```

Reviewer: @oraNod - what do you think about including the breadcrumb above that mentions AAP?

> Creating and sharing collections is a great way of contribution to the Ansible project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating and sharing collections is a great way of contributing to the Ansible project.
```

The Ansible community package consists of ``ansible-core``, which, among other core components, includes the ``ansible.builtin`` collection maintained by the Core team, and a set of collections maintained by the community.

> The purpose of this guide is to give your as a (potential) content creator a consistent overview of the Ansible collection creator journey from an idea for the first module/role to having your collection included in the Ansible community package. The :ref:`Collection development guidelines section<developing_collections>` provides references to more detailed aspect-specific documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to give you as a (potential) content creator a consistent overview of the Ansible collection creator journey from an idea for the first module/role to having your collection included in the Ansible community package. The :ref:`Collection development guidelines section<developing_collections>` provides references to more detailed aspects of this journey.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overall journey consists of the following milestones:

.. contents::
   :local:
```

Reviewer: This ^^ will add a little TOC that pulls in each heading below and will give an overall quick view of the journey.

> Each of the following guide sub-sections will reflect one milestone in the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the following guide sub-sections reflects one milestone in the path.
```

.. _examine_existing_content:

Examine currently available solutions
=====================================

> If you have an idea for a new role or module/plugin, there is no need to reinvent the wheel if there is already a sufficient solution that solve your automation issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an idea for a new role or module/plugin, there is no need to reinvent the wheel if there is already a sufficient solution that solves your automation issue.
```

Therefore, first examine the currently available content including:

> * `Ansible builtin modules and plugins <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/builtin/index.html>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Ansible builtin modules and plugins <_plugins_in_ansible.builtin>`
```

Reviewer: In general, we should have no urls that go directly back to our own docs. There's usually a way to turn that into a :ref:. In this case, I built the docs locally and then searched for  the ansible.builtin index file and pulled the anchor from the top.

* :ref:`Ansible package collection index<all_modules_and_plugins>`
* `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com/>`_
* `Ansible Automation Hub <https://www.ansible.com/products/automation-hub>`_ if you have the Ansible Automation Platform subscription

> In case the solutions you found are not fully sufficient or have flaws, consider improving them rather than creating your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the solutions you found are not fully sufficient or have flaws, consider improving them rather than creating your own. Each collection includes information on where to create issues for that collection to propose your enhancement ideas.
```

> If you already have your content written and used in your workflows, you could think of integrating it to the existing solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have your content written and used in your workflows, you can still consider integrating it to the existing solutions.
```

> However, if they have significant flaws, licensing or major design issues, their corresponding projects are unmaintained, or if you think your implementation will work better, you are encouraged to create and share your own one.

Reviewer: I don't think we should suggest someone creates their own collection because an existing one has flaws/design issues etc.  I'd rather we just say, something like "However, if these options don't apply to your collection ideas, we encourage you to create and share your own."

Author: SGTM, done

.. _create_content:

Create your content
===================

You :ref:`tried <examine_existing_content>` but have not found any sufficient solution for your automation issue.

Use one of the following guides:

* :ref:`Roles guide<playbooks_reuse_roles>`: if you want to create a role.

> * :ref:`Developer guide<developer_guide>`: if you want to create a new Ansible module or plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Developer guide<developer_guide>`: if you want to create a new Ansible module or plugin for your personal use.
```

Put your content in a collection
================================

You :ref:`created <create_content>` new content.

> Now it is time to create a collection to share your work with the community.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is the next step. Collections still have use for personal/individual company use that is not shared with community. Consider adapting this to say something like "Now that you have a module, role, or playbook, consider if you want to group related content together in one reusable, sharable collection. This allows you to group new modules with sample playbooks or roles, or plugins together.

Author: Technically, it's OK to create a collection that has only one entity, like a module or a role.
I would rather emphasize reusability and sharing here (with the community, colleagues or customers).
Sharing should be their default behavior:)

Use the :ref:`Developing collections guide<developing_collections>` to learn how.

We recommend you to use the `collection_template repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template>`_ as a basis for your collection.

Write good user collection documentation
========================================

> Your collection's ``README.md`` file contains a quick-start installation and usage guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your collection``README.md`` file should contain a quick-start installation and usage guides.
```

If your collection contains modules or plugins, make sure their documentation is comprehensive.
Use the :ref:`Module format and documentation guide<developing_modules_documenting>` and :ref:`Ansible documentation style guide<style_guide>` to learn more.

Publish your collection source code
===================================

Publish your collection on a platform for software development and version control such as `GitHub <https://github.com/>`_.

It can be your personal repository or your organization's one.
You can also `request <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/issues>`_ a repository under the `ansible-collections <https://github.com/ansible-collections/>`_ organization.

Make sure your collection contains exhaustive license information.
Ansible is an open source project, so we encourage you to license it under one of open source licenses.
If you plan to submit your collection for inclusion in the Ansible community package, your collection must satisfy the `licensing requirements <https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/community/collection_contributors/collection_requirements.html#collection-licensing-requirements>`_.

> 

Reviewer: replace with a :ref: to the anchor at that file location.  Even if that file isn't part of the core docs, CI should still work as the intersphinx mapping should pick it up..

Author: ah, missed it while moving from the community-docs repo, fixed

* :ref:`Testing collections guide<testing_collections>`: contains collection-specific testing information.

Implement continuous integration
--------------------------------

Now make sure when pull requests are created in your collection repository they are automatically tested using a CI tool such as GitHub Actions or Azure Pipelines.

The `collection_template repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template>`_ contains GitHub Actions `templates <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/tree/main/.github/workflows>`_ you can adjust and use to enable the workflows in your repository.

Provide good contributor & maintainer documentation
===================================================

See the `collection_template/README.md <https://github.com/ansible-collections/collection_template/blob/main/README.md>`_ as an example.

Publish your collection on distribution servers
===============================================

To distribute your collection and allow others to conveniently use it, publish your collection on one or more distribution servers.
See the :ref:`Distributing collections guide<distributing_collections>` to learn how.

> Follow the Collection requirements

Reviewer: Should this heading and the next one be subheadings under publish your collection? They are only applicable to someone submitting it to the ansible package for inclusion, right?

Author: @samccann i merged Collection requirements and Submit for inclusion sections into one. I think they should go separately with Publishing section as imo publishing is a good thing on its own.
